First things first.
What we're going to do is see where
you're at with your deadlift. I don't
have the intention of maxing out today.
>> Yeah. Uh but if it's there
>> [laughter]
>> right? I'm open to it, right?
>> Crazy. One of the biggest mistakes
people make is they max out on day one.
But the way that I see it now is like if
you've been training and you're open to
it and I know that you've got a big
training history. I know that you're a
strong dude. What was that video that I
saw of yours where you like I'll save
you.
And you're talking Oh yeah, yeah, yeah.
>> [laughter]
>> Put on 50 kilos. Let's go. Save me,
babe. Okay, don't worry. I'll save you.
Please, I need your help. Please,
please. Don't worry. Big Daddy Lang's
here. Let's go. I'll save you. Don't
worry. Please, save my life. Don't
worry. [music]
I'll save you. You're the only one that
can save me. I know I am.
>> [laughter]
>> That is so good.
>> Yeah, yeah. It was all I don't I don't
even know what I was saying, man. It was
just in the moment. Yeah, getting up by
myself. You and you're working out in a
big way. So I I know that you're in the
300s with your deadlift.
>> Yep.
So therefore, that's what I'm expecting,
right? So I know that you're over 300.
So up until then, I'm not worried about
injury or anything like that. But if we
get to the point where you're looking
like you can PB today I I might
turn up the music and scream a little
louder.
>> don't know what we're going to do. This
is Okay, okay.
You know, I'm in here and this is a
special occasion. I'm going to try my
best. Let's see how we go. So I'm here
with Jayden Lang. Yeah. This guy is 30
years old and he's like one of the
strongest natural like naturally a
strong dude. I met him probably about 10
years ago.
He came to a gym that I used to work at
called Unity Gym in North Sydney. It was
probably more than 10 years ago actually
because I think I left in 2014. Yeah. So
it could have been in 2014 which would
mean 12 years ago.
Probably. Yeah. And you weren't as big
as what you are now.
>> was a little kid. Yeah.
And um anyway, so so Jayden reaches out
and he's like let's do some training and
I say damn straight. Come over here and
I'm expecting to see this guy who was
the same guy that I saw 12 years ago
[laughter]
and I see this giant.
And uh anyway, so he's coming in here
and he's done some he's dabbled in some
strongman competition.
>> Yep. Have you ever done a powerlifting
comp? Never.
But you're open to it.
>> Yeah, 100%. Okay, but either way, you
just want to be strong.
>> Yeah, pretty much.
>> And jacked and all of the good stuff,
right?
>> dream. Big, ugly, and strong. Big, ugly,
and strong. Okay, beautiful, man. I love
that.
So what we're going to do is say our
discussion was
when it comes to when I work with
someone for the first time for
powerlifting, we go through the
powerlifting movements which is squat,
bench press, deadlift. And I love those
movements for kind of everyone even if
you're not a powerlifter. But strongman,
actually it's more about the deadlift
than the squat. The squat is typically
used as an accessory exercise.
Sometimes they're in competition,
squats, but a lot of the times they're
not. Um but I still recommend that
strongmen work on their squats which I
know that Jayden does. But either way
we decided that today's going to be
about the deadlift. And uh I'm not sure
where we're going to go with this. I've
never really seen him deadlift. I've
seen a few funny videos.
Uh but uh what I'm going to do is now
if it looks good, we keep on doing it.
If it [clears throat] looks like I can
make some suggestions, uh then I'll make
some suggestions.
>> Yeah. If you're looking strong and we
can do something heavy, we're going to
do something heavy. If it looks like
there's just more technique work to work
on
>> Yeah. I'm going to give you some
homework.
>> Beautiful. Maybe pick you after a block
of training, 4 weeks, 8 weeks, 12 weeks,
we'll see. Look at the muscle on this
guy.
>> [laughter]
>> I swear, he's not even lifting anything
and everything is bulging.
That is so good.
Cuz I ate McDonald's last night. Ah,
that's what it is.
>> [laughter]
>> Is that what it is?
He's laughing because it's true.
He's laughing because I got two triple
cheeseburgers.
>> [laughter]
>> Yeah, good, good.
Maybe I'll bring these out or should I
pull them on now?
>> Do you uh it doesn't really matter. You
don't even need them now. So if you do
everything perfectly, we're just going
to keep on going. What I might even do
is just record on my camera so that I
can play it back to you if there's
anything that I need to adjust. Cool,
cool.
All right, let's do [snorts] it, bro.
Just give me three reps um just so that
we can get the technique. And then once
we both agree on a good technique, then
I'll get you to do another set of that
same weight and just do a few more reps
just to warm you up. All right.
You always think about like
when you speak about like leverages and
different
length of a femur and stuff like that.
I'm always like
Yeah, I don't know what I'm doing. I
don't know what
Yeah. Yeah, well
>> [snorts]
>> we'll see.
>> [sighs]
>> Yeah.
You know, I say it's pretty damn
perfect. It's pretty damn perfect. It's
hard to fault.
>> tell me, man. No, I'm not. I swear. But
there's a few small things that I'll I
want to see if it's just going to make
some small changes, right?
>> Probably once it gets heavier, I'll
probably go [__] as well.
I I'll tell you something that's just
going to change the consistency. What a
lot of people do when they get to their
max is it's like their warm-up sets are
all inconsistent. I want everything to
be
kind of systematized with you. So you
come in and you go through your own
checklist in your head where you're
doing everything [snorts] exactly the
same from start to finish.
>> No. So you just did three reps where
every single time you looked at a
different spot.
Yeah.
>> I want you to look at the same spot from
start to finish from warm-up to top set.
Okay. So that's going to just ensure one
part of consistency moving forward.
>> Yeah, I never thought about that. The
body follows the eyes. When you look
down, your hips are higher. So when you
look down, the hips are high because the
torso follows the eyes. When you look
up, the hips are lower because the body
follows the eyes. So you're going look
down, look up. Look down, look up.
>> Yeah. I want you to pick a spot and and
keep it there.
>> Oh, the whole way through the lift.
>> Yeah, from start to finish.
>> Oh, wow. Okay, yeah, man.
>> So So that's a basic foundation that I
say is like when you start, I like the
head slightly up.
>> Yeah. Right? And then when you finish, I
like the head slightly down. So you're
basically looking at a spot I say below
the horizon. Pick a spot about 4 m
[snorts] on the floor in front of you.
So I'm going to put something on the
floor and I want you to look there. No.
Right? So so here.
So the next thing I want you to try is a
slightly narrower stance. Where you're
standing is very strongman-esque.
Which is like big, wide base of support
for a big, wide dude. Makes sense.
However, we can afford to bring the
stance in just a little bit closer to
allow our grip to go just a little bit
closer.
>> Yeah. Here's the cheat with deadlift
bars. The heavier the weight, the more
that bar is going to bend. But if your
hands are too wide, it's not going to
bend that much. More efficiency with a
closer grip. So arms straight down is
the goal. Yep. But when the hands are
close, the bar is going to bend even
more.
>> Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
>> You you know what I mean? So do it
again. Walk up to the bar, but instead
of standing where you were, I want you
to bring your feet in about an inch.
Okay.
So you supposed to be here then? Yep.
Yeah. Now because your stance is a
little bit closer, we can afford to
bring the grip a touch closer as well.
Yeah, which is going to look a little
bit more compact and your arms are
ideally going to be straight down. Yeah.
Yeah, bro. Let's go. So yeah, that's
nice. Yeah, [snorts] perfect, perfect.
Now the next thing I want you to look at
this spot and keep your eyes there. So
sit in the position looking at that
spot. Keep your eyes there for the
lockout as well. Yep, okay. From start
to finish. Sit into position.
Yeah.
Okay.
I love that. One small thing. I want you
to reset in between. So your first rep
was actually the best which is the
opposite of when I'm working with
people. It's like usually their first
rep is the hardest and then they get
better and better. What you did is you
sat in the position and you went up.
Then you went down and you didn't
readjust. You just picked it up again
from where you landed.
>> Yeah. I want you to readjust again.
>> Get right. Yeah, right. So I say drop
This is the sequence. Drop, sit, drive.
Drop, sit, drive. Drop, sit. You're
missing the sit. Okay. [snorts] Okay? So
drop, sit, drive.
>> Okay. Drop, sit, drive. So in between,
don't just pick it up where you land.
>> Yeah. Drop, bend the knees again and
then drive. Okay? Let's do that again.
Three more reps. So it's a slightly
closer stance, arms on the outside of
your legs straight down.
Sit into position.
Eyes on the
target. Good. Now drop, sit,
drive. Good. Don't lift your hips in
between. Just sit. Just sit. I just Sit.
Hips down. There. And drive. Good. And
again. Drop, sit, drive.
Drop, sit, drive.
Look at how we're moving, brother.
>> [laughter]
>> That's like a professional, brother.
>> Yeah. That's like a professional. Okay.
How did that feel? Yeah, quite nice.
Yeah.
Man, now we're going to see. Now we're
going to see. All right. You do
something in between, have a drink. You
chill. I'm going to I'm going to load
plates for you today, okay, brother?
>> All right, yeah, yeah. Keep Keep Nice,
nice. What increases do you normally
I used to do blues and I just go all the
way up to two.
Okay. Whatever. Yeah.
Sweet. I love that, but I also love
reds. Cool. Let's do Cuz we cuz we
started on reds.
>> Yeah, yeah. Well, when I saw you lift it
up, though Yeah. It's spicy. But you
know what?
Kind of felt like it was 60. Yeah,
>> [laughter]
>> okay. Yeah, good. I think that we've got
this mental plate Yes. So
I'm going to keep on going up in reds.
I I anticipate for the first four
plates. So that means 70, 120, 170, 220.
Yep. Let's see how that feels. And then
and then from there,
uh I'm open to going straight to 270,
but we'll have a play around.
>> Cool. Okay? How did those little
adjustments feel for you? The stance,
bringing it closer. How did that feel?
>> Well, I actually always thought that
that's how I was supposed to deadlift.
>> Yeah. But I've always just, you know,
based it off whatever I was comfortable
with and whatever felt stronger to me.
Yeah. But because when you do come
closer, you actually
shorten your range of motion of
traveling in like how far you have to
travel. And it also allows you to get
your
bum under a bit, eh? Yeah.
Well, that is Well, the the hip
position, I would say not necessarily,
but it's more to do like the hips I
don't think changes that much with a
closer stance or a wider stance. It's
going to be the same hip height, but for
me it's more about the like arms going
straight down. Yeah. Um it's it's way
more efficient in this
position. People go wider because they
think it's a wider base of support and
therefore it's stronger.
>> Yeah. But I like to say like
>> [snorts]
>> you need that wide base if you're about
to get tackled or something like that
because we need lateral support. We
don't need lateral support. This is this
is balanced. So now it's it's just about
efficiency and refinement. Some people
it's like if I go too close it's ruining
your hip drive. Yeah. But that didn't
happen with you. Cool.
All right, your stance was was lovely to
watch. It was lovely to watch.
>> [laughter]
>> Let's do straps now. Yep. And we're
going to do the same thing. Amazing.
Like just so that you know, there's
about you know, 10 things we can say on
a deadlift.
>> Yeah. But you're doing all of them. So
just because I'm not saying it doesn't
mean it's not important.
>> No, thank you, man. But yeah, like maybe
I'll tell you guys what he's doing
really really well so that you can
understand it's not just about like
there's two things that we need to work
on. There's heaps of things that we need
to work on, but he's already got it. I
don't need to give him a shopping list
of cues. So I'm not going to confuse
him. Let's do the exact same thing. So
walk up to the bar in that slightly
closer stance. Do you want me to do the
high belt for you?
Uh
you've been watching. [laughter] You've
been watching. He's fair, bro. Thank
you, bro.
Well, the thing is it's it's not a deal
breaker. So what's comfortable for you?
>> Yeah.
Okay. Give me three reps again. Cool.
Okay.
>> [snorts]
>> It's all about precision now, okay?
>> Eyes on that target. Yep.
Good. Drop. Sit. Sit.
Drive. Don't lift your hips.
Straight down. Drive. Excellent. And
relax.
Excellent. The reset in between, it's
like it's not a deal breaker where you
go hips up, hips down, drive. Hips up,
hips down, drive. I just think it's just
like it's an extra movement to add into
the equation.
>> Yeah, yeah, yeah.
>> Let's just do it with as little movement
as possible.
>> Yeah, beautiful. Um and and not more
than that. So hips up and hips down, you
kind of take it you're in position.
We've got beautiful tension. Just drop
the hips and go. You know what I mean?
Don't don't reset that position. No,
we've just fought so hard to get that
position. Yeah. So most people's
second rep on a deadlift
is a better than their first in most
cases. Why? Because in a squat we start
with the down phase to set ourselves up
to build tension for the strong up
phase. In a deadlift we have to start
from zero and build tension for the up
phase.
>> Yep. So the first rep is usually people
are out of position. They ripped the
weight off the floor. They've got to
learn tension. Yeah. But then you've
done that first rep, you've got tension.
Stay. Sit. Drive. Sit. Drive. Sit.
Drive. Don't go reset [snorts] that
whole tension and then sit and drive.
>> Hard. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Do you know what
I'm saying?
>> Yep. I keep on saying one more small
thing. Yeah, yeah, yeah. No, give them
to me. Taking tension out of the bar. So
the first rep that you you did on all of
them, it's like you're in a really nice
position so it doesn't matter that much.
But you're technically not taking the
slack out of the bar.
>> Okay, yeah, yeah. Okay? So you're in a
great position and you're just going
whack. Yeah.
>> I want you to go slack out so bend the
bar then push.
>> Okay. You create tension on your entire
That's what taking the slack out of the
bar is. You're taking ten You're taking
the tension out of the bar, but you're
also creating tension in your body.
Right? So what I want you to feel is
this. I'm going to grab your arms and
I'm going to stretch you. So stand in
your deadlift stance. Stand in your
deadlift stance. No, no. Up. Up. Up. Up.
Up. Up. Up.
Hanging. [clears throat]
So that's how I want you to feel from
the bottom. So so get the same tension
that you just felt from me pulling your
arms.
>> That should bend that barbell before it
comes off the ground. Okay, so from here
bend the bar then stand.
Sit. Bend the bar then stand. Take a
seat, brother. A lot of these small
details a lot of people would look at
and go
it doesn't matter it's 120 kg.
I'm not teaching you to lift 120. Yeah,
exactly. I'm teaching you this for when
it does matter.
So when you get over the 300s, it's
those little things that can throw your
body out of position. 100%. Right? So if
you don't take the slack out on a heavy
weight, that's where you see people they
they psych up and they come in and they
just go whack and then their hips shoot
up and then it's not strong. Yeah, yeah,
yeah, yeah.
Consistency. Systematize the approach
from this weight every single one you
just follow that set of steps.
Stance. Yep.
Eyes.
Sit. Stretch. Go.
And then you just do that over and over.
And we don't even think about it
eventually. You do all of your thinking
now. When you get to the top set, you
don't do any thinking. It's just
autopilot. You come in and you just All
of those things just fall into gather
and it's a precise lift. So that's when
I lift the best. Exactly.
>> thinking about it.
>> When you don't think.
>> Yeah, yeah. All this talking that I'm
giving you now, I'm going to shut up as
it gets closer to your heavy weight.
[laughter] I'm going to I'll scream.
Yeah, yeah, yeah. I'll scream stuff that
doesn't make sense. Like [__] [__]
go, champ.
It's like that. You know what I mean?
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. you
[__] stop. Well,
even if I don't, you know, pick it up
today, [__] it after a couple sessions
of you telling me telling me and then I
want to gradually
>> Exactly. Exactly.
Which [clears throat] is a strange thing
because I also say if you can do it
under these if you can lift better under
these circumstances, which is quiet,
talking, that's not optimal
circumstances for lifting heavy. Mm.
Optimal circumstances is chalk flying,
screaming, Yeah.
you know, lots of sweaty boys looking at
you. It's just amazing.
You know what I mean? How good, eh? It's
so good.
>> [laughter]
>> I'd love to say all the hot girls
looking. That doesn't happen.
>> Not one single one. No.
>> [laughter]
>> No.
To be honest, I actually haven't lifted
like um
like anything impressive in a little
while, I would say, because I I actually
I just came back from a bit of a
travel. I did
two weeks in Thailand. I did Jerusalem
so I got to see the whole city and I was
there for like
maybe like
a week and a bit. So I I was I've
actually been away from home for like
almost a month, I would say, cuz then I
had to come back to Sydney. So in terms
of like lifting heavy, you're not on.
No. I've just I've just come in and I
just like whatever's on the day. If if I
load up and I'm like oh, this feels a
little bit Yeah. easier than last time,
I'm going to go up. I'm going to go up.
So like even yesterday like we're doing
strict press and usually I hit like 100
for some reps and sometimes it's three,
sometimes it's five.
On the best day it was 10
and then yesterday I threw on the 110
and I was just like this feels good,
man. It was awesome. Yeah. I started
throwing up 110 on strict press with
some reps and felt amazing, yeah, but
Yeah, yeah. Yeah, I mean if I, you know,
just like what you're saying, prep for
it. And I always hear when you're
talking in your videos like
like hitting PBs on the regular and I
feel like for me that was a That's how
you used to train. Yeah, or I I don't
really ever hit PBs. I really ever train
towards the hit PBs cuz I feel like I'm
not worthy enough to even do it because
I'm so inconsistent with my training.
Yeah. But uh
it's going to change now. But what a
lifestyle, bro. You just came back from
Jerusalem and you're talking Turkey,
you're talking all these things. All
right. What what is it? 26 countries
I've done. No way.
>> Yeah, man. It's been amazing. Good on
you, bro. Yeah, so blessed. Good on you,
bro. So now the difference is we're just
adding in taking the [clears throat]
slack out of the bar. So that means
right now we're slowing it down.
Eventually we speed it up. Cool. Right?
So you're slowing down that process by
just going bend then we go. Yeah. Okay?
Yep.
>> [clears throat]
>> All right.
We're going to go for three reps again.
Awesome. Okay.
Process. Process. Process.
Good stance.
Sit in this position. Eyes on the
target. Bend the bar.
Bend the bar. Now push. Nice. Again.
Drop. Sit. Bend the bar. Drive. Yes, one
more. Drop. Sit. Bend the bar. Drive.
Nice. Yeah.
Oh ho. Yeah. Oh ho. Precision.
Nice. I was intentionally thinking about
it to make sure that I try to do
>> Very good. You know what I love?
When someone just like responds to the
stuff I say.
It makes me look really clever.
>> Yeah, it's crazy. When you're coaching,
you tell someone to do something and
then they do it. Yeah, yeah, yeah. It's
annoying, bro. You'd be surprised. You'd
be surprised.
>> [laughter]
>> Yeah, very good. Now
I'm done with the cues. Cool. You keep
doing that same thing. All right. Oh,
man. Made me feel good today.
>> Yeah, so well, like I said, we go red
red red so that's 220. And then from
this weight this is going to dictate
what what we do after that. I might go
in slightly smaller jumps from there.
Okay. See where we're at. So you said
this week you did a 220 deadlift. Yeah,
I just threw it up for a couple reps.
>> Right. So you're not really your body's
not primed for peaking or anything like
that. So this is what I'm talking about.
Zero expectations.
You know, I know I can comfortably get
you to 220
without worrying, but this is where I
want to do the decision making after
this set.
>> Cool, cool, cool, cool. We grew up and
my dad just loved eating bad food.
>> Yeah. And like my like when we when we'd
be driving home and he you know how you
know McDonald's will put up those
banners and it'll be like new El Maco
burger.
We got to try it. We got to try it. We
got to try it. And then my dad gets so
excited to eat that kind of food. And
like my dad will just eat whatever he
wants
>> Yeah. and he he wouldn't even look that
bad. Like it never gets that bad. And
then I would My mom, you know, she's
short, chilly and like
chubby old woman and I would say to my
mom,
I can't believe that.
>> [laughter]
>> And then my mom says, "But you got your
personality from me."
I was going, "Oh, that's true. That's
true. Actually, that's probably true."
>> [laughter]
>> So good. Two reps. Beautiful. Okay.
Okay.
>> [sighs and gasps]
[snorts]
[clears throat]
>> Nice.
Okay.
Yeah. Yeah.
Good technique.
But you did the hips up thing. Oh, yeah.
Yeah. Yeah. It's not a deal breaker.
Today is not about hitting big numbers.
Today is never going to be a world
record today on the first session. What
I would like to do instead is is plant
the seed, right? I want to like just
then, on that on that weight, I didn't
give you any cues, and I just left it up
to you, and you went back to autopilot.
>> Yeah. I don't want to go heavier
than that, because I don't want to start
giving you cues now, like what's next.
We go 270, and I give you cues, and it
just stuffs up your whole rhythm, right?
So, what I want you to do is come back.
Today is about learning. Right? Instead
of going heavy than 220, what you just
did then was went back to autopilot,
which was those things that it's a hard
one, because they're not wrong, but
lifting hips up and and hitting it Yeah.
is exactly what I want to take out right
now, okay? I want to teach you precision
today.
Okay? So, right now, what you did for
this weight is you went like this, cuz I
didn't give you cues anymore, because I
don't want to get in your head. I want
you to think about it now. So, what you
did, you grabbed it, and you went hips
up, drive. Yeah.
Hips up, drive. We've lost that
precision that I'm after. Don't lift
your hips. You're trying to hit a
bull's-eye from a moving target. I want
you to place the hips exactly in the
bull's-eye. Stretch, and then go. Yeah.
Okay? So, we're going to do the pause
deadlift next, right? And the pause
deadlift, the idea is to take all of
that movement out of the equation, and
just focus on sitting the hips precisely
where they need to be, taking the slack
out, and then standing. Okay?
We're good? Cool. Let's do it, bro. So,
I'm going to strip this first. We'll go
170, and then we'll rebuild back up to
220. And the next time you do the 220,
after we rebuild that technique, it's
going to be perfect precision. Okay.
Good man.
Perfect precision.
So, we do this with no psych up. Yep.
Okay. It's just
process, process. Smooth, smooth.
Smooth.
And the pause is 1 in off the ground,
okay? Okay.
Yeah, I want you to give this narrower
stance a chance, so keep it in that same
stance we're working on. Eyes on the
target.
Smooth off the ground.
I heard it click. I don't want to hear
it click. We can't wake the baby. Okay.
Smooth off the ground. So, slow, smooth.
Good. Nice. Yeah, that's smooth.
Smooth off the ground.
Smooth off the ground. Okay, got it.
Yeah. No, that's good. That's good.
That's good. That's good. Okay, good.
Two more. Two more.
Perfect. Beautiful. One more.
Best one. Best one.
Yeah,
feeling it really bad. Best one. Oh,
really?
>> [laughter]
>> Very good. That's really like Yeah. Uh
making me focus on taking that slack
out, eh? Take the seat. Exactly.
Exactly. All right, that was beautiful.
Take a seat.
Now, the hard part of that was like
thinking about all the things, except
not thinking about actually lifting.
Yeah. You know what I mean? It's like,
"Oh, [__] there's weight on the bar.
Damn." Yeah. Yeah, you know what I mean?
It's like, "I've got to try and think
about these delicate things when I'm
trying to lift a weight." Yeah. So, now,
you understand that exact position?
>> Yep. I'm going to add a little bit of
weight. Beautiful. So, you're going to
rest probably about 6 minutes.
>> Mate.
And then I'm going to go to 200 kg. I'm
going to go for five reps. Awesome. I
want you to have a look at the video.
Let's listen to it as well.
Yeah, so we heard it. Yeah.
That was good. Yeah.
>> [sighs]
>> The fifth The fifth one was the best.
Yeah, hard, eh?
Last one was even better.
>> [sighs]
>> Yeah. You done?
Okay. That's mad. Yeah. My favorite
lift?
Uh
I mean, I do love stone,
but uh like at the competitions, or
whenever I compete in strongman,
whenever there is a deadlift event, I'm
always like,
I should be able to get some good points
here. Mhm. So, I always think that. And
then also, whenever there's a deadlift
event at the strongman competitions, the
other boys come up to me and go,
"You're going to do good here." And I
always think, "Thank you. Thank you."
>> [laughter]
>> But uh
Yeah.
If [clears throat] I can get even better
at this, and then even better at all my
other weaknesses, I reckon my
my pressing is where
I'm weak. So, that's what I want to get
really good at.
>> What's your best bench press? I've done
What is it? 160 for a pause rep. Oh,
yeah? But I've never been heavier than
160. Yeah. Yeah. Did you do like
powerlifting technique, or just lay on
the bench and push it? No, I I I do I
try to do like a powerlifting thing. I
try to remember some of the cues that
Vasyl told me, and then some of the cues
that we learned from that day that I
first met you. And then um but I mean,
whether I'm doing it properly or
whatever, We'll see We'll see after
this.
>> Beautiful, king.
>> after this.
Okay.
Next up,
I want five again, bro.
Me? Five reps again.
>> Okay, five, five, five. Okay. So, it's
just about smooth. Yeah. So, on on that
first one, even if you make a small
error, Yeah. I don't want you to have a
stop and reset and just go, "Ah, [__]
it." You know what I mean? Yeah. Yeah.
That's dangerous with weight in your
hands. Yep. So, still commit to every
single rep.
Okay? Smoothly take the slack out, and
take it an inch off the ground.
Smoothly.
Yeah, it's actually quite funny when you
think about it, cuz like in everything
else, it's always like explosive,
explosive, explosive.
>> Yeah. Yeah. But this one, it's like
Well, it's like this. Okay.
Well, look at elastic, eh?
Like a bow and arrow.
>> Yeah. Exactly.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. They're
not fast or rapid. They are precise.
>> Yeah.
But that arrow doesn't move slowly.
Yeah.
Right? Same thought process.
>> [snorts]
[clears throat]
>> Remember where pausing.
I'm pausing. Sorry. Sorry. All good. All
good. So, slowly pause it.
That's how. That's how. Good.
Slowly pause it.
Good. Two more. Two more.
Slowly pause.
Nice. One more. One more.
Beautiful. Beautiful.
Very nice.
Thank you. Are you even waiting for the
handshake and then etc.? That's amazing.
That's a new one.
I love [laughter] that feeling.
That was nice.
>> No, yeah.
>> Definitely that last one. I felt the
right things that what I was supposed to
do, and everything. That was good. Yeah.
Okay.
We forgot. Yeah. It's good. I just
[__] got excited.
See how the hips come up? Yeah. That's
changing the whole process to make it
explosive. We're going to take that out.
>> Yep.
That's why we got the hit. So, just sit
in position. Sit. Be Be precise with it.
Imagine you're playing darts,
and you got the opportunity to win a
billion dollars, and I gave you two
options to put the dart in the center of
the bull's-eye. One option was to come
and place it in the center, or the other
option was to throw it from back here.
Which one would you take? Center. You'd
place it there, wouldn't you? I want you
to place it there.
Do you understand? I don't want you to
lift up and and try and hit it. You
can't hit the You can hit the bull's-eye
from there, but it's not as
guaranteed that precision. Just place it
in the bull's-eye. Place it in the
bull's-eye. Stretch out. You're in the
bull's-eye, and stand.
>> Okay.
Okay. [sighs]
I just want three reps.
All right, three reps. Except the weight
This is what I need from now. Zero
aggression. Yeah. No psych up.
>> Yep. Okay? Don't lift your hips and
drive them in. Place them precisely into
that bull's-eye.
>> Cool.
Okay?
All right.
Don't wake the baby. Don't wake the
baby, okay, Jayden? Okay.
>> [snorts]
>> I want to see
precision. Precision. Stance. Eyes on
the target. Eyes on the target.
Sitting into position.
>> [snorts]
>> Sit into position precisely. Slack out.
Perfection. Let's go again.
Sit.
Slack.
Good.
Hips straight down. Hips straight down.
Hips straight down. Precision.
Very good. I just woke the baby. I just
woke the baby. Can we Can we shake
hands? [laughter]
We shook hands for that one. All right.
Wow. Well, at least you didn't wake the
baby.
I felt my hips in that sweet spot. Sweet
spot. Yeah, that sweet spot. Okay. So,
that's what I want to work on. It's not
as if I don't want you to be explosive.
I want you to be So, I want explosive,
but precision must come first. Do you
get it?
So, it's like, you know, an F1 driver,
the goal is to be as fast as possible.
Yeah.
That's not how they learn.
I mean, I'm not an F1 driver. But, I
would assume that you learn slow Yeah.
before you introduce speed. You build
precision and accuracy before you build
the explosion and aggression and the
speed. Yeah. Okay, so I think that's a
perfect start point
>> Yeah. to now give you some homework to
think about for the next phase of your
deadlift.
>> Yeah. Okay.
>> Cuz I I feel like uh whenever I
deadlift, it was always just like rip at
it as hard as you can. Whatever happens
on the way up, it happens.
[clears throat]
If it's good, it's good. If it's bad,
it's bad. Just go with the flow. Which
is fun. I know it's fun. I know it's
enjoyable [laughter]
to be like that. Yeah. But, you know,
when you
And you think about the best deadlifters
in the world, eh? There's all the
perfect whether it's rolling, whether
it's getting in, you know, doing this,
doing this, all the little adjustments.
precision
>> looks like It's perfect. Mozart Yeah.
It's beautiful, eh? Okay.
Okay.
>> [laughter]
>> Exactly. Yeah, straight up. You know,
I'll tell you something funny. So,
Thor Björnsson, like when you say the
best deadlifters in the world, my mind
goes straight to him.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And I coached him
because he is the best. He's 510 kg. And
And I had people come to me. It was
actually Mitch Hooper. Cuz, you know,
one of the best strongmen in history. He
came to me and he goes,
"Why What What's the thought process
behind Thor and his slow deadlift?" And
I'm like,
"Thor lifts 500 kg faster than any human
on the planet. It's not slow.
>> [laughter]
>> You know what I mean? Like, he doesn't
need to be fast and explosive on the
warm-ups. He's lifting the weight
precisely from start to finish, right?
So, it looks slow because his approach
is controlled.
Uh but then when you look at the actual
speed and the weight that's being moved,
it's it's actually quite fast, right?
So, the So, slow is smooth, smooth is
fast.
>> Yeah. That's what we're going to think.
That's the That's the number one thing
that made me think about today when you
kept saying smooth, smooth. And I was
like, That's what I want to do. I want
to do that. Slow is smooth, smooth is
fast. Good. Now, that's it for
deadlifting. I don't want to just keep
on smashing your back today. Hey, let's
have a look at the attire. So, belt,
yeah, great. Love the belt. Love the
straps.
In strongman, straps are allowed. In all
powerlifting competition, a belt is
allowed.
Now, footwear. That's the optimal
footwear. Bare feet. So, for me, shoes
Look at this sole of this shoe. It's a
thick and spongy. Don't deadlift with
these shoes. That's like standing on a
bed mattress. It's unstable and I have
to travel that much further. That is the
most stable footwear. Unfortunately, in
powerlifting competition, you have to
have your feet covered. And that's why
they usually use like barefoot slippers
or something like that. But otherwise,
that's how you want to look even you
want to be that muscly when you deadlift
as well.
>> [laughter]
>> Yeah. I'm in two minds about the
post-lift celebration. Do you think that
fist bump or the handshake is
appropriate
>> I prefer you to [laughter] walk away.
Everyone
I'm not stopping it soon. The fist bump
is so iconic in your videos, man. It's
>> [laughter]
>> such a
You know, you you wait for it, you know?
Yeah. But, I'm not going to lie. When
I'm training with my boys, Yeah. you hit
a set, you these ones you got to hit up.
Yeah.
>> Yeah, that's it, bro. Yeah, okay. Okay.
That's it. Hey, you just give that
little boom, you know? Yeah. But then,
it's very
That was very gentlemanly, [laughter]
wasn't it? Thank you. You're welcome.
It's when you shake your girlfriend's
dad's hand. Yes. Yes.
>> [laughter]
>> How How do you feel about this, guys?
Are we going the handshake moving
forward? We might just have to.
>> [laughter]
[gasps]
>> How do they do it? How do Croatians
greet? Is it a kiss on the cheek? We
kiss on both cheeks, actually.
>> Double
You might
incorporate that. Yeah, we'll see. We'll
see.
Imagine all [laughter] the the big
monsters in here. Yeah. 400 squat And
then we kiss on both cheeks.
>> [laughter]
>> We're going to get Jayden back for a PB
and we're going to we're going to kiss
this guy twice.
>> Yes.
As [laughter] soon as I deadlift 320
Yes.
I'm going to I'm going to kiss him
twice. That's going to be
>> [laughter]
>> That's going to be Yeah.
That's going to be good.
We're going to do a handshake now. We're
not going to do a fist bump. Okay, we're
going to do a handshake. That was Jayden
Lang kind of session just out of nowhere
type of thing. Like, he's in the middle
of [__] touring around. He's a busy
guy, very successful. And where can my
audience find you? Uh well, I make
YouTube, Jayden Tatsis Lang. Instagram,
Jayden Tatsis Lang. TikTok, Jayden
Tatsis Lang. Snapchat, Jayden Tatsis
>> over social media. He does a lot of cool
stuff. We'll leave all of his links in
whatever the section is. I'm sure most
of my people are already following you
anyway.
Uh but,
watch this space. And hopefully, when he
gets back from his world touring and all
that stuff, we're going to get him on a
bit of a prep and and see where these
techniques take us.
>> Yeah, man. Good stuff. Honestly, I just
want to say, you know, even for your
audience, like, I've been
fanboy of this guy since I was a little
kid. Like, I like I'm telling you like
12 years ago, I we got the first session
with this guy. My cousin paid, you know,
to get a session with this guy cuz I had
no money. And then I jumped in the
session. We trained together from the
first
Well, you're 30 now. So, that was 12
years ago. So, there you go. That was
18. 18 years old, yeah. Fresh 18. Just
out of high school. Like, cuz I remember
like me and my cousin used to go to
school Sorry, go gym like after high
school and everything like that. So,
been doing it for ages. But like, every
day we would rock up and be like, "Did
you see Did you see what Sebastian did?
Did you see what Sebastian did?
Sebastian shoulder pressed this." Or
we'd be like, "Did you see what Animal
Kid did? Did you see what Dinny Jay
did?" You see We were just like, you
know, everyone everything that you
posted, we were so up to date with it
and we were just like firing it. And
honestly, just made us like, "Wow, we
got to lift heavy now. We want to lift
heavy." And it's uh you know, such a you
know, such a privilege and I'm so
grateful that I'm actually here now
being coached by you, being helped by
you, being guided by you. It's funny
because I see this famous guy saying
these to me. It's like, "Come on, bro."
No. No. No. No. Well, anyway, bro, well,
that's uh it's an honor, brother. It's a
pleasure to see you [__] kicking ass.
Thank you, bro.
>> Like, this guy and his business and his
everything. He's got millions of
followers and and all of that. Love to
see it. And and hopefully, we can spread
the good word of all of this strength
work. And do some more stuff moving
forward. Hope you guys enjoyed that
session. Uh if there's anything else you
want to see, comments, all that stuff.
Like, subscribe. And I'll see you guys
next time.